doc/source/contributor/contributing.rst, before:

.. _contributing:

===================================
Contributing to python-ironicclient
===================================

If you're interested in contributing to the python-ironicclient project,
the following will help get you started.

#openstack-ironic on OFTC IRC Network
-------------------------------------
There is a very active chat channel at irc://irc.oftc.net/#openstack-ironic.
This is usually the best place to ask questions and find your way around.
IRC stands for Internet Relay Chat and it is a way to chat online in real
time. You can ask a question and come back later to read the answer in the
log files. Logs for the #openstack-ironic IRC channel are stored at
http://eavesdrop.openstack.org/irclogs/%23openstack-ironic/.

Contributor License Agreement
-----------------------------

.. index::
   single: license; agreement

In order to contribute to the python-ironicclient project, you need to have
signed OpenStack's contributor's agreement.

.. seealso::

   * https://docs.openstack.org/infra/manual/developers.html
   * https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/CLA

Project Hosting Details
-----------------------

Bug tracker
    https://storyboard.openstack.org/#!/project/959

Mailing list (prefix subjects with ``[ironic]`` for faster responses)
    http://lists.openstack.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/openstack-discuss

Code Hosting
    https://opendev.org/openstack/python-ironicclient

Code Review
    https://review.opendev.org/#/q/status:open+project:openstack/python-ironicclient,n,z

Commit message:

Replace CLA with DCO
Change-Id: I523115f5b5056a0a5742843ea9b68a44dea43007
Signed-off-by: Goutham Pacha Ravi <gouthampravi@gmail.com>

doc/source/contributor/contributing.rst, after:

.. _contributing:

===================================
Contributing to python-ironicclient
===================================

If you're interested in contributing to the python-ironicclient project,
the following will help get you started.

#openstack-ironic on OFTC IRC Network
-------------------------------------
There is a very active chat channel at irc://irc.oftc.net/#openstack-ironic.
This is usually the best place to ask questions and find your way around.
IRC stands for Internet Relay Chat and it is a way to chat online in real
time. You can ask a question and come back later to read the answer in the
log files. Logs for the #openstack-ironic IRC channel are stored at
http://eavesdrop.openstack.org/irclogs/%23openstack-ironic/.

Developer Certificate of Origin
-------------------------------

.. index::
   single: license; agreement

In order to contribute to the python-ironicclient project, you need to adhere
to the `Developer Certificate of Origin`_. OpenStack utilizes the Developer
Certificate of Origin (DCO) as a lightweight means to confirm that you are
entitled to contribute the code you submit. This ensures that you are
providing your contributions under the project's license and that you have
the right to do so.

.. _Developer Certificate of Origin: https://developercertificate.org/

.. seealso::

   * https://docs.openstack.org/contributors/common/dco.html

Project Hosting Details
-----------------------

Bug tracker
    https://storyboard.openstack.org/#!/project/959

Mailing list (prefix subjects with ``[ironic]`` for faster responses)
    http://lists.openstack.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/openstack-discuss

Code Hosting
    https://opendev.org/openstack/python-ironicclient

Code Review
    https://review.opendev.org/#/q/status:open+project:openstack/python-ironicclient,n,z
